# Example 3: Using an Interactive Webpage to Teach Python...Almost Instantly!

One of the reasons that I co-founded **[TeachBooks](https://teachbooks.io/)** was to make it easier to share a unique interactive Python feature with other teachers so that they can use it with their students. As installation of Python (and the Jupyter Notebooks that often accompany it in engineering fields) can often be a difficult task for students, the ability to let students interact with code in the browser without software installation is an incredibly useful tool, which is illustrated by the example here.

I am very proud of this particular example not because it is the most interactive or interesting lesson, but because I feel that the design and execution of the interactive page was perfect. This page was used during a workshop I was invited to give at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras to teach the teachers how to set up interactive materials for engineering education similar to my existing course. I knew that many of the participants would have a background in programming, but that it was most likely in languages like Matlab, Fortran and C rather than Python. I created this page to give them the basics of Python, in particular how to work through the exercises we would go through later in the workshop. The page worked perfectly, and the participants commented that even though it was simple and they had no prior experience, they felt confident working with the Python in the notebooks. 

The page can be viewed here: **[iitm-mude.github.io/2024-workshop-book/main/programming/week_1_1/warmup.html](https://iitm-mude.github.io/2024-workshop-book/main/programming/week_1_1/warmup.html)**. The rocket ship icon in the top right will activate the interactive Python feature.

_The documents provided here are explicitly shared here as part of the portfolio of Robert Lanzafame. We are currently working on finalizing the open source licenses, so please contact Robert at R.C.Lanzafame@tudelft.nl if you are interested in using them._